Add workflow template to deploy Container Apps using multiple mode (#531)
pagopa/dx: apps/website/docs/pipelines/release-container-app.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Deploying App to Azure Container App
---

# Deploying Apps to Azure Container App

This documentation covers the Container App Release reusable workflow defined in
[release-azure-containerapp-v1.yaml](https://github.com/pagopa/dx/blob/main/.github/workflows/release-azure-containerapp-v1.yaml).

## How It Works

The workflow performs the following steps:

1. Build and push the Docker image to the registry using the `docker-build-push`
   action

> 2. Determine the Container App’s revision mode: **Single** or **Multiple**

Reviewer: suggestion: link to the related MS documentation

Author: Added

3. In **Single** mode, update the existing revision with the new image, routing
   100% of traffic immediately
4. In **Multiple** mode (canary rollout):
   1. Create a new revision with the updated image

>    2. Wait until the new revision reports **Healthy** status

Reviewer: question: how? it's some user defined endpoint with custom code?

Author: Added but don't think it's quite useful

   3. If a script to verify the application health is configured, shift traffic
      incrementally based on its JSON output:
      - Use a `swap` flag to cut over immediately (100% traffic to new revision)

>       - Use `nextPercentage` and `afterMs` to schedule gradual rollouts

Reviewer: suggestion: I'd just link the section below, ie. 

"To implement a canary deployment, you can set up [a custom script](<link here>) within your pipeline that guides the deployment process using its output"

Author: added

   4. If no script is provided, perform a full switch (100% to new revision)
5. After successful switch, deactivate the old revision
6. In case of failure, the new revision is deactivated, while the old revision
   remains active

### Implementing a Canary Test Script

For canary deployments, add an NPM script to test the new version and drive

> workflow behaviour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
workflow behaviour. This script can check the results of integration tests and/or monitoring metrics before outputting a payload that influence the workflow.
```

something alike.

> The following schemas are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following schemas for the script output are supported:
```

```json
{
  "swap": true
}
```

> Use this schema to immediate cutover to the new version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output such payload to immediate cutover to the new version.
```

- `swap`: when `true`, switches all traffic to the new revision immediately.

> Instead, for gradual rollout use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, for gradual rollout output:
```

```json
{
  "nextPercentage": 50,
  "afterMs": 30000
}
```

> - `nextPercentage`: percentage of traffic for the next iteration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `nextPercentage`: percentage of users traffic that will flow to the new revision in the next iteration of the script.
```
